Add February/git-notes (#14)
paImer/notes: lessons/february/git-notes.md

```shell
$ git commit -m "Type a message < 60 characters"
$ git push # pushes changes to GitHub
```

Enter credentials when prompted.

## Tracking changes

In addition to GitHub, it's possible to track any changes you've made in terminal. Use:

```shell
$ git diff
```

and use keys `j` and `k` to navigate up and down.

Press `q` to exit.

## Checking out branches

Typically, pushing changes to GitHub is done through a "branch", and typically, this will be a branch off the `master` branch.

To see a list of all the branches available on the repo you are using, use:

```shell
$ git pull # updates your local system to reflect GitHub repo
$ git branch # lists branches in repo
```

N.B. Adding the `-a` modifier after `branch` displays *all* branches, including ones that would usually be hidden.

Choose a branch you wish to work in from those that are available, and *checkout*:

```shell
$ git checkout mybranch
```

Now, any changes pushed to GitHub will be pushed directly to this branch.

## Creating pull requests

<br>
<div style="text-align: center"><code>master</code> is holy. </div> 
<div style="text-align: right">- RG, 2019</div>
<br>

> Once a change has been pushed to GitHub, you can assign a reviewer to check the change, or go straight ahead and **merge** the pull request.

Reviewer: You're missing the bit about actually creating the PR here.

And do **NOT** go ahead and merge the branch without review. PRs and code reviews are one of the most powerful tools we have as engineering teams.

> This merges the repo w/ changes (the "edited" version of `master`) and the `master` branch, reflecting any changes you made in the `master` branch itself.

Reviewer: Wording is a bit off here.

```suggestion
This merges the changes from your branch into the `master` branch, i.e. after the merge, `master` will now contain the changes from the branch you were working on.
```

This is a *much safer* way of updating `master` compared to making the changes directly. 

> For more detailed information, see [here](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Getting-a-Git-Repository).

Reviewer: This link should be much further up, no?

# Notes on using GitHub

> To install Git (*Debian*-based linux systems), in Terminal (`Ctrl + Alt + T`) run:

Reviewer: is the `ctrl+alt+t` true for all debian systems? Might be best to leave that out.

```shell
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get upgrade
$ sudo apt-get install git
```

Configure your GitHub credentials:

```shell
$ git config --global user.name "John Doe"
$ git config --global user.email johndoe@example.com
```

With the `--global` option, this needs only be done once.

#### Getting a Git Repository

You typically obtain a Git repository in one of two ways:

- You can take a local directory that is currently not under version control, and turn it into a Git repository, or

- You can clone an existing Git repository from elsewhere.

In either case, you end up with a Git repository on your local machine, ready for work.

For an existing folder:
```shell
$ cd /home/user/my_project
$ git init
```

> This creates a *Git repository skeleton* - a new subdirectory named `.git` that contains all of your necessary repository files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This creates a *Git repository skeleton* - a new subdirectory named `.git` that contains all of the necessary files Git needs to manage the directory.
```

To clone a repo:

```shell

> $ git clone https://github.com/username/repo

Reviewer: This *is* correct, but you're going to have a hard time trying to clone this way if you've set up SSH.
Could you add the instructions for cloning a repo over SSH as well as HTTPS. (Hint: look click the green "Clone or download" button of a repo, and play around a bit)

```

or

```shell
$ git clone https://github.com/username/repo myrepo
```

creates a directory called `myrepo/`.

### The Git life cycle

> ![lifecycle.png](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/images/lifecycle.png)

Reviewer: delete as it's incorrect when it comes to deleting files.

Check status of files, including any changes with

```shell
$ git status
```

Use this **liberally**.

Example - creating a simple file called `README`

```shell
$ echo 'My Project' > README
$ git status
On branch master
Your branch is up-to-date with 'origin/master'.
Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)

    README

nothing added to commit but untracked files present (use "git add" to track)
```

To *stage* the untracked file:

```shell
$ git add README
or
$ git add . # adds all unstaged files in current directory
```

> Once staged, create a commit, then push this commit to a GitHub repo you have admin/contributor access too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once staged, create a commit, then push this commit to a GitHub repo you have write access too.
```
